I previously downloaded the NPM software in this case, I'm using a release candidate 1 version of software,
you'll be using the full release.
Now that I've downloaded my solar winds software, I need to get it into my virtual machine.
There are multiple ways of doing this, but in this example, I'm going to go to VM settings, options,
and I'm going to create a shared folder.
So I'm going to click add and browse to the folder where I downloaded the software on my physical
PC.
Click next, click finish.
I'm going to make this available as a network drive and click, OK, so now in Windows Explorer, I
have a shared folder and within that I can see my installation file.
I'll now be able to install solar winds NPM on my Windows 7 VM.
So to install NPM, I'm going to double click on the solar winds NPM executable file, this file is
once again stored on my physical machine, but I'm accessing it via a shared folder.
I'm going to click Run.
The install has been verified
and then files are being extracted.
I'm going to click yes, to allow the program to make changes to the computer. So the solar winds installer
is starting the installation.
Now, I'm told that solarwinds requires Microsoft.net framework version 4.5, if this version
is not already installed, solarwinds will install the required .net framework version before installing
your solarwinds application, click install to begin the installation of the Microsoft.net framework.
So I'm going to click install to install Microsoft.net now to make sure that you don't get bored with
these videos.
I'm going to speed up the installation process so some processes are taking a long time to complete.
I'm going to simply speed them up in the video.
OK, so Microsoft.net has been installed, I'm now shown the welcome wizard for the Orion Network
Performance Monitor software.
So it says, welcome to the install
wizard for Orion Network Performance Monitor.
Click next to continue.
So I'm going to click next to start the installation.
You need to choose your language.
In my case, I'm going to select English, I'm told that Orion requires Internet information services
or IIS, but it's not currently installed after completing the installation.
The Orion configuration was it can install it automatically.
Do I want to do this?
Yes, I do.
So I'm going to continue with the Orion installation.
The license agreement is then displayed.
It's obviously recommended that you read the license agreement before accepting the terms.
I'm going to accept the terms and then click next and then asked to choose a destination installation
location.
I'm going to stick with the default and click next.
They need to choose the install type.
I'm not going to use an express install, which is the recommended way of doing it so fully install Orion
Network Performance Monitor as quickly as possible, or do an advanced installation. In this case
because I simply want to get the software up and running as quickly as possible.
I'm going to go for the Express install and click next.
NPM now supports QOE or quality of experience traffic monitoring, I'm then asked whether I want to
install thi,s in this case because I want to get it up and running quickly.
I'm going to select the default values and enable QOE and click next.
I'm told that the setup has enough information to start copying the files.
If you want to review or change any settings, click back.
If you're satisfied, click next.
I'm happy with that.
So I'm going to click next and start the NPM installation.
So NPM is installing various components, including Microsoft Visual C++.
The installation takes a while.
I'm going to speed up the video so that you don't have to wait for the full installation taking place
in real time.
We're told now that the installation is being completed.
We're now told that the installation has successfully completed, so the database has been set up,
the website has been set up, all services are running, and we can launch the Web console by checking
the check box, which is checked by default.
I'm going to click finish to exit the configuration
wizard.
I can then connect to the local host on Port 8787, and then log in to the solarwinds NPM server,
notice by default, we can log in with the username of admin and no password. To change the admin password
to login, click settings, manage accounts.
So I'm going to log in with the default username of Admin and a blank password.
So at this point I have successfully installed NPM and I can access the console.
The next step is to follow the wizard to discover the network.
But before I do that, I need to configure the virtual machine for integration with GNS3.